Dear colleagues, let me introduce myself.
My name is Alexander
Alexandrovich, the name of the Crimea,
but I would rather be called
San Sanitch.
It is somewhat more comfortable.
The topic we will discuss today
is called “Evaluation and
Certification of Staff.”
In general, agree, it sounds pretty
boring, something like that,
certification, some papers.
In fact, I must tell you that
of all the tools, of all
the topics that are related to the
management of the human
resources of the enterprise,
this is probably one of the
most intriguing, mysterious, mysterious.
If you don't believe me, let me
give you an example.
I have been conducting interviews,
surveys with business
directors, HR managers,
HR directors for
three or five years
and asking two simple
questions.
First, whether you have a staff
assessment in some format, and
the second question, if you like
the way it goes.
And with an astonishing stability of
10-15% they say that yes, it is.
It is necessary.
It is our most valuable tool
that allows us to solve many problems.
Another 25-30 percent presses their
shoulders and speaks, and why?
And finally, the other 60 percent
say, yes, it is, but we don't
know why it exists,
and we don't really understand
what to do with it, because
it, as they say, has no
use but harm.
So the question arises, and Should
the company use the evaluation of personnel?
Because 25-30% of
our do not use it in any
way, it probably does not
need to.
They live and, in general, they
live well.
What do you do with the old 60%?
I would formulate the overall goal
of our class with you approximately
like this.
I would like that by the end of
our class you very well understand
what is the evaluation of
personnel, what purpose it
serves, in what registers, in what
formats it can be used.
And then you can decide on
your own, after talking to your
colleagues, whether you need a staff
assessment at the enterprise
or not.
And if necessary, you can build
this assessment system on
your own or with the help of
third-party consultants, make it
work, and you would fall into the
first category.
In addition, 10-15 percent
who would think it is necessary
work and bring results.
I would like to immediately state that it
will not be the case for any assessment of staff.
Well, you know where the assessment is
used in the practice of human resource
management, most of course, in the
recruitment.
When recruiting new people than
it differs primarily in that we these
people absolutely do not know what we
know about them what they wrote in the
resume about themselves whether it
is true or not we are not aware of
reviews well may be tests results
interview anything more this is new
and for their research to evaluate
their changes their methods We will
talk about another assessment
of staff, about one that
relates exclusively to people
already working at our company.
We have huge advantages,
we know them well.
Does this make our life much easier?
I fear not very much.
To understand where problems
arise, where difficulties
arise, let's first agree
on terms and understand
them.
And here we are waiting for the
first and probably the most
serious to start, but if you want,
a cultural shock.
How many words do you know in
Russian that are related to
the area we are discussing?
Here are two I named, it is an assessment and an assessment.
In English, if more precisely,
in English business vocabulary.
First, there is the concept of “Performance
Appraisal”, which in Russian
translates as “work assessment”
or “performance assessment”.
The results of this “Performance Assessment”
are based on the “Performance
Review”.
In addition, there is one word
that has already firmly entered our
business jargon – it is “assessment”.
In English it means “assessment” and in
Russian it means “assessment”.
I have no other word, unfortunately.
Job evaluation is a concept
that refers to the evaluation not
of a person, his work, but to
the evaluation of the workplace,
what a person should perform.
No matter what, no matter how much, and
how much you have to pay for it.
And, not so long ago, we learned
two other fashion concepts.
This is KPI, you know, you've heard of it.
Now everyone has heard him.
Key Productivity Indicators are
nothing more than key performance
indicators, in Russian
K-P-E.
Well, since we have finally
moved to the English
jargon with you, I will speak
KPI.
We will look at this KPI in more detail
a little later.
There is another technology called
Management By Objectives
(MBO), which is also directly
and directly related to the
evaluation of staff.
The question arises why in Russian
we have so few words for the designation
of the rating, and in English so many.
The answer is pretty simple.
The fact is that our Russian
management, as we see it
today, is only about a decade
and a half.
From this, as we all know, there
were socialist forms and methods
of government adopted in the
Soviet Union, where everything
was extremely standardized, where
there were state standards
for everything, because the
state was the only employer
that we had.
What about the West and the East?
There are as many employers as there
are companies.
And each has its business, and each
has its specifics, and each has
its own characteristics.
And so for about 100 years in
the West only did that developed
various technologies
that would help manage people
that would increase efficiency,
productivity of work
that would meet new conditions,
in particular, such requirements
as development, the constant
changes that we see in
the market and in management.
We did not have any problems,
so there was only an attestation.
What is Certification?
In a few words, it is the
most primitive, one can say, the initial
method of assessing personnel, which
was used in cases when giving
an objective assessment of
human work.
Well, for example, in terms of
the number of employees, state
natural employees, there were no
others, engineers, scientists,
officers.
Once every few years, the manager
of each employee had to make
a text characterization for him.
In general, it is quite arbitrary,
although there were indications
that this characteristic should contain.
Well, first of all, as
you guess, it's humanity, devotion,
and so on, as well as moral
quality.
After this, this characteristic was approved
by the certification commission,
brought to the MOHO certification, and
according to the results of
this certification, a decision was
made on what to do with this person next.
To leave, to dismiss, to be promoted.
In short, by means of certification,
what is called official
compliance was determined.
Do you think it is only on
certification?
Of course not.
Of course, it is understandable that
about each employee, about each employee
in general, there was a certain opinion,
and it was clear what his prospects were.
This was a sort of summary
of results for a certain period.
No wonder that these tests were
done formally.
The results of these assessments were
known in advance.
Nothing new they discovered, well,
let's say, they just didn't
live on time.
What about the other methods and
technologies of personnel assessment
that have been used and
developed by our Western colleagues?
Well, let's start with performance
assessment, which I repeat, translates
as a work assessment.
This is probably what
can be called in the Western model.
What is she different?
Mostly by its technology.
This means that any manager
is obliged, for a certain period
of time, say, a year, in some cases
2-3 years, to submit for each
of his employees an assessment
of the results of his work.
But, unlike our certification, the assessment
is given in a very strict standardized
form, where the positions are
indicated, the techniques are indicated,
how to evaluate, what qualities
to evaluate, what results
to evaluate.
And as a result, the same decisions
are made about how much a person
meets his position or not, how
much he has to pay, whether
he deserves promotion.
These decisions are usually made in life.
Performance assessment.
As in reality, most systems, methods,
and technologies of evaluation of personnel
are directly linked and incorporated
into the employment policy that
the company conducts.
In particular, performance
assessment, or work assessment,
is usually implemented in
those enterprises where there is a
very strict system of selection and,
say so, staff content.
For example, there is a concept
either raise, or out, which
translates as “either grow, or
goodbye.”
According to the results of the annual evaluation
of work, all employees are divided into
three categories, category A, B and C.
Employees of category A receive a promotion,
employees of category B – a warning,
and employees of category C receive
a envelope with a check and
the best wishes on the labour market.
What is Performance Review?
This is the same result of performance
assessment analysis, the document
that is prepared by the manager of
the employee on the results of
the assessment, and then stored
in his personal affair.
And, as a rule, over a number of years,
these performance reviews are
analyzed, and we see what happens
to him, he grows, he gets better,
he gets worse, what happens
to him and what decisions about
him need to be made in the future.
The next technology is the
assessment technology I mentioned
earlier.
We will consider it in detail separately.
Let me say two words literally.
This is quite a new technology.
And the strawberry is given what it
was born in the American intelligence
services, it was created for a subtle,
complex, detailed assessment of the
personality of a person in terms
of understanding his suitability
or inaptitude to perform
a certain job.
I will only say that this
is a costly procedure.
It is used rarely because
it is expensive.
Well, where it is worth using it
or not to use it in your organization,
we will talk separately and
try to deal with it.
The next concept of job evaluation
is an assessment not so much of
a person, but of the position he
holds in our organization.
Or should occupy.
Why is the job evaluation procedure necessary?
Well, at least to understand
by what characteristics,
by what parameters we
will evaluate the work
of a person.
All these technologies are
closely linked.
Now two words about the CPI promised, as well
as the MBO.
KPI, strictly speaking, is not a technology
for personnel assessment.
This is a modern method of
organizing business management in general.
From top to bottom.
This technology links the objectives
of the unit of each individual employee
to the objectives of the organization,
the corporation as a whole, to
what it puts before itself, in
what direction it is going to develop.
So here is an element of evaluation,
but it does not play a major role,
but rather it is a measuring
instrument that allows you
to support the organization
as a whole.
The same can be said of Management
by Objectives, that is, management
of goals, but it is a softer
tool that is less related
to the needs of the
company as a whole and is more
focused on optimizing the
work of direct
managers with their subordinates.
As a rule, it is used in rapidly
growing organizations, where people
need not so much to perform
routine tasks, as to strive for
new ones, to master new areas,
new achievements, and
so on.
Here is a brief overview of the technologies,
methods of assessment of personnel
that are now used worldwide.
All the rest are some modifications
of these technologies in one way
or another.
What combines all these technologies?
There is a very important principle, colleagues.
And, strictly speaking, a significant
part of what we will talk about
next will be devoted to analyzing
this principle.
Unlike other HR
tools, staff assessment
is never an end
in itself.
Let's look at other tools, such
as recruitment.
Can the company work without employees?
No, it cannot
So they have to be hired.
Motivation system and pay system.
Will people work if we don't
pay them?
No, they will not.
So, this must be done too.
But, sorry, and the wave system also
exists, you need to update the staff
from time to time.
And in modern organizations it is
still to be taught, because
the situation is changing, new
requirements, new technologies,
especially information.
Training is also needed.
In fact, it is a goal in itself.
But this evaluation itself is
never needed.
And the deepest mistake is made by
those who are trying to implement
a staff assessment, well because
it's beautiful, it's great,
someone has it, but we don't, and
we want everything to be like big ones.
And I often have to hear such
a wonderful expression, something
I have employees
stuck, something to blur.
We will do an assessment of staff.
So, colleagues, the evaluation of the staff
as such is not necessary.
And in some cases it will be more profitable
not to carry it out or give up it, so
as not to waste time, not to waste
resources and, say so, not to harm the
culture, organization,
atmosphere in the organization
and the attitude of employees
to your organization.
What follows from here?
The main and most important thing
is to determine what your goals are.
What do you dislike in
your company?
What would you like to do better?
What is hindering you?
We further determine to what
extent these goals can be
achieved by implementing staff assessment.
Then we decide on what
methods, what tools can
be used here.
This is the very content of
what we will talk about next.
Since we have already found out that
the most important thing is to define
goals, let's designate those goals.
When we talk about the purposes of personnel
assessment, it makes sense to remember
the metaphor that we know from marketing.
Please tell me, do you need an electric drill?
Someone will say yes, some will say no.
I ask why?
To burn or to turn beautifully?
Most likely, it is not needed by
itself, but you need to have holes
in the walls.
Can you get holes in the walls without
an electric drill?
You can.
Call the service office, the master
will come, make all these holes for you,
hang your shelves and you will reach
the goal without having an electro-dredge.
The same goes for staff assessment.
It is just a management tool
that can be applied,
but then you need to know why.
You can not apply, then understand
why and how we will solve the
problems facing us, without
using the evaluation of staff.
It is now appropriate
to see what these goals are.
I know only five of them.
The first is the audit of the company's
labor resources.
What is it?
First of all, the workforce should
not be confused with what
is called the audit of personnel management.
This is when it is studied to what extent
the company has the correctly drafted
labor contracts, personal affairs of employees
are conducted, orders are placed on the
spot, whether the labor books are
correctly filled up and so on.
No, it is not about that.
But, in general, it is
also useful.
Audit of labor This is a situation when
we look at, and who works in our company?
How many people work here?
Is it right that they work?
Audit is used to bring order in
the quantitative and qualitative
composition of the enterprise.
How is it done?
Audit of labor resources is the
only technology for assessing personnel
that does not always require
the participation of the staff
in this assessment.
Half of the information
we get from auditing comes
from simple statistics
that are stored in
the company.
According to personal composition, because
how many people were fired when they
were fired, how many were accepted,
when they were accepted, how many they
worked and so on and so on.
It is very important, of course, objective
indicators of the work of the units
and objective indicators of the
work of the employees themselves,
that is, performance assessment, which,
in principle, is quite possible to
implement, and not touching, what
is called, people.
What results as a result?
The main result is a report with
proposals for personnel decisions,
whether we need to hire more
employees, whether we need to
get rid of someone, whether we
need to teach someone, and so on
and so on.
All the recommendations that we
and you as HR managers can give to
the company's top management.
The next task, the next goal of
personnel evaluation is motivation.
Staff motivation is one of the most
painful topics that is constantly
discussed not only in our literature,
but also in Western literature
devoted to personnel management
and general management.
And it is far from just how
much people need and can
pay to work effectively.
It has long been known that
if a person is overpaid, he
will most likely work worse.
If a person is not paid, he will
most likely leave our organization.
The remuneration is merely the
compensation we pay
a person in a monetary or other
form, as a payment for the
service he provides us, for
working for us and doing
the actions we want from
him and bringing us the
results we expect from him.
What is different from this motivation?
Motivation is to help a person
in creating such internal
mechanisms that will push him
to work better, to work
in our company, to work on
conscience, to work, as
they say, with a focus
to bring serious results.
One of the main tools
for motivating staff is
feedback.
In order for a person to know
what is good, what is bad, how
he should work, how he should
not work, what he should, even
learn what qualities he
should develop, he needs to
receive feedback.
Unfortunately, this feedback
is extremely rarely given
by our leaders.
If given, it is usually
a negative feedback.
In the format "it's done badly,
it's done wrongly", well, and
as the famous joke goes,
"I'd better sit at home and
then I'll get a promotion,
because at work I'm noticed only
when I do something wrong."
Staff assessment is a powerful
tool that not only motivates employees,
giving them not only negative but
also positive feedback, telling
them what the company expects
of them, what it thinks of
them, what prospects they expect
in the future.
This is another powerful means of
raising the authority and increasing
the importance of line managers,
first line managers in the
management of our own enterprises.
Unfortunately, these leaders
are often not very willing
to lead people.
They prefer to manage
technology, processes,
results, but who should
lead people?
Probably the HR service.
If you and I want the first
line managers to really
be responsible for their people,
they really lead, then
feedback in the format, well,
say the same, MBO, Management
Bio-Objectives, is absolutely
necessary.
As a result, the picture at work,
the attitude at work, the attitude
of the manager to the subordinates,
the company's opinion about the
employee, the prospects of the employee
further in this company or their
absence, becomes transparent for
both parties.
Of course, in such conditions, say,
it works differently.
The next goal for which the evaluation
of personnel can be used is to
create a reserve movement
in the company.
What is sin?
Our employers, when there is a job
vacancy of a manager, when there
is a job vacancy of a significant
character in the company, are more
likely to look for these people
in the labor market.
There is such an illusion that
supposedly in the company we know people
and so they do not deserve
much, work for themselves
and work, but somewhere there are
those we need, and we must
find, we must work for ourselves,
and then we will be fine.
Unfortunately, the practice of the
last few years shows that the labor
market in our country has become
very complex.
Finding people in the labor market has
become extremely difficult, and
the question arises that every large
company should create its own
domestic labor market.
That is, first of all, to distinguish
among their own employees
those who are worthy in the
movement to lead other more
responsible positions.
Otherwise, I fear that these our employees
will find their place in other
organizations where they will
be valued.
How is it done?
To do this, you can use different
technologies, ranging from the listed
job evaluation, management by
objectives and ending with expensive
and complex serious assessment
procedures.
But I recommend that this procedure be
used only in the extreme case, precisely
because this procedure is extremely
expensive.
The same task can be solved much easier.
What happens as a result?
As a result of this assessment,
we get a list of people we
plan to nominate.
In addition, individual training
plans, what and how we will teach
them, they are probably not
quite ready yet for the new positions.
Planning a career in the company.
We know how many candidates
we have who can take the
positions.
Should we look for them somewhere
outside of our company or should we not?
Or maybe there are really no
people in our company?
The next goal of staff assessment,
very closely related to
the previous one, is to identify
the needs of staff training.
We all know and have heard repeatedly
that we now exist and are forced
to exist, develop and
grow in an environment where everything
is constantly changing.
New technologies are emerging,
new requirements are emerging.
New professions are emerging,
new specialisations are emerging, which
did not exist before.
Unfortunately, most of these specialties,
most of these professions
are still not taught
anywhere.
And companies have to train
themselves with their own resources
or by inviting external trainers
or teachers to create
their own training and
staff development systems.
This problem ranges from
the simple need to re-train technical
personnel, well, let's
say the same repairers,
equipment installers,
workers, new technologies,
new tools, new equipment,
to a situation where we need
to teach our own managers,
that is, our own managers.
We have organizations that teach them,
but unfortunately, in most
cases they are taught theoretically.
In addition, each company
has its own problems, has its
own bouquet of only inherent
situations, tasks, and
to solve these tasks is necessary
to teach employees of
this enterprise.
What about training, because it is
very expensive.
So we need to understand what
to learn.
How can this be done?
The easiest option is to conduct
a survey of executives or employees
themselves about what you want In
fact, unfortunately, these surveys
are not always an objective answer
simply because people themselves
do not know, and what they
actually do not know.
Therefore, in order to determine the real
needs of the company in the training
of personnel, especially managerial,
it is necessary to run through
quite complex technologies,
which we will discuss with you
in a separate section.
What happens as a result?
As a result, we need to get a program
where the contingents of employees
will be indicated, their number,
what we are going to teach them, schedule
and, if possible, the estimate
for training.
That is, if you want, a plan of assignments
to our HR department for staff training.
Finally, there is such a very unpleasant
goal of conducting and evaluating
personnel as its reduction.
What is sin?
Many of our companies are
simply bloated by states, and
in the captive stage there
is a need to understand who should
work and who should not.
There may be a crisis that requires
savings from us, and as you
know, our staff is one of the
main items of our costs.
Therefore, we have to look at
who we get rid of, on whom
we can save.
New technologies may bring the need
to dismiss a whole number of employees
simply because in those positions
that our employees have performed,
the need for them disappears,
well, if you want to replace
a machine or a computer program.
How can this be done?
First of all, it is necessary to assess
the effectiveness of the
work of the units, and in each
unit the effectiveness, the effectiveness
of the work of employees.
When we do, we get
a list of the jobs
we are going to cut.
Why not just take it and make it?
The fact is that unfortunately,
when the company begins to
ferment and rumors that the
crisis, that the cuts, that what
is unknown what will be next,
the best employees immediately
start to look for new jobs, and
those who may not very believe
in themselves and maybe no one
needs in the labor market, they
will stick to their place, and
eventually you may find yourself
in a situation that you
will have a reduction of
staff naturally, but you
will get those who have
no more where to go.
Do you want that?
Probably not.
Therefore, the reduction of
staff should begin with the evaluation.
If we summarize all five of the above
objectives of personnel assessment,
then it will prove that the most common
of them is the employment audit.
It practically affects both reduction
and motivation, and the creation
of a backup movement, and the
determination of learning
needs, but to a certain extent.
This is, so to speak, a superficial
analysis of what is happening
in our company.
It may not be necessary.
It may prove that the company knows
who works on it, quite enough for
its personnel, but is going
to take care of the reserve
of nomination, development.
Then these two goals come to the
forefront, the rest we can not
touch and not resort to complex
assessment systems to implement them.
It may be that in our company
there is an increased flow
of personnel, then we need to do motivation.
And it may be that our company
is in a situation of implementing
serious changes, from each employee
requires something that
was not required from
him further.
Then again we have to resort
to technologies associated
with motivation, self-development
of personnel.
But I repeat, the audit of labor
resources is, so to speak, just a little bit.
The last issue that needs to be addressed
in connection with the objectives of the
staff assessment is the relationship
with or assessment of the staff from
the stage of development of our company.
If we look closely at our Russian
business, we will see that a very
significant part of our enterprises
has undergone a certain
cycle of development.
But in general, almost all
around the world are
going through the same
cycle of development, but
at different rates.
These rates can take several years
or decades, and can take
centuries.
The first is when our organization
just emerged, it is when it is
still small, it is when everyone
knows each other.
It often happens that everyone does their
work on the principle of "everyone
is responsible for everything" and "taking
more, throw on", and generally achieving results.
There are 15, 20, 30, 40 and 50 people
in our company.
Everyone knows each other, and why
do we need an assessment?
Practically for such a company, the
assessment is, if you want, a fashionable
lotion, expressed in modern
jargon, which really does not
solve any company goals, because the
company does not yet have such goals
that need to be solved
with the help of personnel
assessment technology.
The only case you can imagine here
is when the management changes
in the company and that new
management wants to know who
works there.
And if our enterprise has overcome
or stuck at this stage, if our
enterprise has overcome this
remarkable stage, then, and
this is now a very characteristic
trend of our management,
our market, it is experiencing
a stage of rapid growth.
Money is more and more, functions
are more and more, ideas are
more and more, let's recruit people,
the more, the better.
During this period we observe, as a rule,
uncontrolled growth in the number
of employees of the company.
Every manager goes to the director
and cries that he needs
an assistant, he needs
two assistants, he needs
four assistants, and my
people generally don't.
The departments of HR management are only
dealing with what they are looking
for and hiring these new assistants,
but all this happens until a certain
stage, when the head of the enterprise
opens the payment report, looks
at it and is terrified.
He says what it is, look, we
don't get productivity,
and the people twice as much
as we spend on these people.
No, he says, it is impossible for us.
Soon to release the whole ballast.
And here too it often turns
out that they are not dismissed at
all those who should be.
And so at this stage for the company
is useful, I would say, it is absolutely
necessary to conduct an audit
of labor resources.
If such an audit has occurred, in
the future our company may perceive
two fates.
Destiny number one is happy.
This means that the company will continue
to grow and continue to develop in the
market.
And one of the main problems
of this company will be the improvement,
and in some cases the creation
of a normal, modern,
transparent management system,
including in the part concerning
labor resources.
And then, although the
problem of labor resources is nowhere,
and as with any order, yet once
every few years, at least it is
necessary to carry out it, the
first place is such tasks,
such goals as personnel development,
reserve movement, motivation
of personnel.
But there may be another problem.
The problem is very unpleasant, and if
a company suddenly stops growing,
it starts to shrink because it grew,
it grew, and suddenly something
happened to the market.
The redistribution of property, the
change of technology, the
emergence of such technologies of
goods that did not exist before.
Take, for example, what we
have seen recently.
The ubiquitous presence of
film devices, cameras
to date has almost replaced
digital.
From this it follows that those resources,
labor which were in demand in the
production and maintenance of
the industry of film appliances
for domestic use, they are now
left unwanted, because printing
is no longer necessary,
show no need, everyone does it
at home on a printer or just
look at their photos on the
screen of a TV or computer.
Such examples, especially in our
turbulent times, are very many.
And it is very often that the
company is either forced to completely
re-profile, or it simply
does not work.
Then there is a decline.
If the company wants to stay on the
market at least in some quality,
then it is necessary to conduct an
audit of labor resources for the purpose
of identifying lists for reduction.
What happens if such a disaster does
not occur, companies remain
on the market and continue to thrive.
As a rule, after a period of growth
there is a certain period of stagnation,
rather stabilization.
When companies stop growing, it has
taken its niche in the market, its
product is in demand, its brand
is known again in demand,
and the need for growth is
no longer.
There is a need to improve the
quality of staff.
And here again, the first place is
put forward by the personnel assessment
goals, such as development, creation
of a reserve movement and motivation.
So colleagues are important.
When you start developing your company's
staff assessment system, or
trying to understand why the
system you're using is working
badly, it's very sharp to see
what stage of development
your company is at and what
goals you want, you can and
should put before the staff
assessment.
And the last question.
It is to understand, and whether
it is worth it to carry out and whether it
is not worth using any other tools
instead, the question of effectiveness.
What is Efficiency?
These are the results that you and
I have achieved or are trying
to in relation to the costs
we have to incur, because
nothing in this world is
given for free.
In order to assess the effectiveness
of the staff assessment or to predict
what efficiency we intend to,
we need to understand how we
can estimate the cost of carrying
out that assessment itself.
In order to understand how much the
staff assessment costs, we
need to calculate the costs.
Unfortunately, when you and
I try to count personnel
costs in any register, we
generally only count direct costs.
All the money we
spend on staff is
salary.
In fact, it is of course not so.
The company's cost of staffing
is several times higher.
Some articles cannot be
evaluated.
But let's look at at least what the
company will cost the evaluation
of staff in terms of working
hours, working hours.
Suppose you and I want to conduct
an assessment or certification
of 100 people, of which
we have 80 people of
ordinary staff, 20 first
line managers and 4
senior managers.
If you look into the context of
our lecture, you will find there a
very detailed and detailed solution
to this task.
Now I will not discuss it, I
hope you read it, see it yourself,
I will answer.
Even if each of these employees
bear an hour or two of the workload
of the staff, we will
eventually get such an unpleasant
thing as about 320 hours
or 40 working days, 40
human days.
Your company is prepared to
lose 40 human days to evaluate
staff.
Some may think that it is nonsense
and little things, and for some it
is very much.
But this 40 working days estimate
only concerns the direct labor costs
of conducting the assessment.
About hearing, judgment, about conversations
in the corridor and in the smoker, about reasoning.
Multiply those 40 hours by two
and a half or by 3, and then
you will get a fairly accurate
idea of what your company
will pay for conducting staff
assessments.
I add one more.
Unfortunately, most of this working
time will go on the shoulders
of no one but the top and middle-
level managers.
And these people, if your company
is working seriously, and
so busy enough.
What follows from this?
Very simple morality.
When engaged in the creation, development
and implementation of personal
enterprise assessment systems,
try to save the participants' labor
costs as much as possible.
How to do it?
To do this, you need to choose
an adequate assessment technology
for your task.
These technologies will be devoted
to the next part of our class
with you.
And now, while the head is still
fresh, please open your workbooks
and try to perform the exercises
on the first part of our class.
So, colleagues, if you have successfully
overcome the first section of our
workbook, I suggest you move to
the second section of our class
dedicated to personnel assessment
technologies.
How to choose technology?
This requires a small analytical
path.
First, we need to reach the goals
we are pursuing.
And you probably remember that goals
are the most important thing we need
to understand well in order to conduct
a qualitative evaluation of staff.
Second, we need to understand what we
are going to assess, who we are going
to evaluate, and the reasonable question,
and who will evaluate.
Once we have determined all
these parameters, we need to
calculate what it will cost us.
How to count, we know from
the final part of our
previous class.
Finally, after optimizing costs,
we choose the technology and methods
of assessment and can proceed to the implementation
of our project.
Let us briefly go through the questions
of what to evaluate, who to evaluate
and who will evaluate.
So what can be assessed?
And, in general, we don't have so many
positions that can be evaluated
in the work of the staff.
Well, the first is, in fact, the results
of the work and achievements of the
employee at the workplace.
There are special methods for this,
and we will consider them separately
and in detail.
The second is qualification, knowledge
and skill, as well as such a mysterious
thing as competence.
You will immediately say that competence
is also a fairly new concept,
he is somewhere about 15 years
old, not fully understand what
it is.
Clearly, this is some sort of alloy
of these very knowledge, skills, personal
qualities that ensure the successful
work of a person in a particular
workplace, the performance of
certain functions.
What else can we evaluate?
The behavior.
How does a man behave How
does he treat his work?
Is he interested in it or not?
Does he show motivation for
this work or is he a shallow-valley?
Is he always at
work?
Or is it easier to find it in the cigarette?
Or is he busy eating lunch?
What else can be assessed?
of satisfaction.
Satisfaction of whom?
First the man himself.
And there is a concept of self-
esteem, which usually includes
the outwardness of
a person, both of himself
and the work he performs.
And besides this, we will still
talk about the extravagance of the external
and internal clients of our character
being evaluated.
What is an external client?
This is more or less understandable.
These are the people with whom our
hero interacts outside our organization.
If it is the sales manager, then
it is its buyers.
If it is a advertising specialist
who provides customers with
our advertising products, then
it is the customers who
purchase these products.
There are internal clients.
These are the employees of our
organization with whom the
person we provide directly interacts.
These are participants
in those business processes that
are embedded in the workplace of our character.
These are the people who get
results directly from him, and
those whose results he
benefits.
That is, in general, all that is.
There is nothing else to
tell you except one small
but important detail.
This is the dynamics of all these indicators
over time.
And what, customer satisfaction or
behavior, or qualification in a year,
two, three, a person improved
or worsened, or remained
the same?
It is extremely important for us to know
this to determine the prospects of that
person and to understand what to do
with him next.
This is the purpose of our
assessment.
The second important question is, who
will we evaluate?
I will not be long in the tree,
I will say only one thing.
The only format, the only way,
the only purpose of assessing
staff, which implies assessing
everyone, is, right, you thought
right, it is an audit of
the workforce.
In the vast majority of other cases,
we do not need to evaluate
them all in a row.
It is too hard and too difficult.
Determination of the contingent
of people being evaluated is one of
the important tasks of planning and
planning the evaluation of personnel.
The next question is, who can evaluate?
And here it turns out that we do not
have so many possible options.
Well, let's start with the
fact that in the vast majority of
cases the assessment takes
the most immediate can be central.
This is the direct manager
of our valued employee.
Why is it?
Yes, simply because he is responsible
for his work, is most interested
in his subordinate work
well, but most importantly
he knows him best.
And he knows from the position above
and can from this position from
the top, that is, from the
position of the management of
the company, to assess how well a given
employee is suited to this job, good
or bad, and what he needs to
do to become quite good.
Who can evaluate the employee?
Well, if we remember what certification
is, then in the head, of
course, comes up such a concept
as a commission.
A commission of employees,
usually managers, which is
specifically created to confirm
or not confirm, approve,
agree, develop, supplement
the assessment given
directly by
the managers.
So, if we take two positions
with you – the assessors are the
manager and the commission, then
we get the most classic certification
that was discussed before.
Who can participate in the evaluation?
We have already talked about the fact
that there is such a format of evaluation
of personnel as the evaluation itself, and
what a person thinks of himself.
And if the assessors are two characters
– the manager and the employee
directly assessed, then we
get the management technology
for the goals of Management by
objectives, because it is based
on the fact that the managers
not only give an assessment
to their employee, but they
jointly discuss what the
employee's goals are and
what he intends to do to
those goals.
And also how he understands, and what he has already
realized, and what is not, what is important,
and what is not important.
And who else?
and ah.
It is easy to remember colleagues,
subordinates of our person being evaluated,
if they are present
with him, well as external and
internal clients.
What happens if the assessment will
be involved the manager, colleagues-
in-law, and may also be the
character being evaluated.
It will be the very very fashionable
method, which is very much spoken
about, is a 360-degree assessment
or so-called circular
assessment.
This is when we get an assessment
of this employee from all sides.
From above, from side, from below,
and it can even be from the company,
and maybe from him himself.
Well, well, beautiful, elegant,
fashionable, it is believed that objectively
one problem is very expensive
and very difficult.
And if you and I remember how much
a simple assessment of staff
costs by direct managers, then
if we use a 360-degree assessment,
then let us multiply our labor
costs somewhere by 4,
by 5.
Let us think if we should
use this assessment.
Are the results we
get worth such a
huge cost?
But finally, a little different
from all these technologies
is a situation where the
assessors are an outside
group of experts.
It is absolutely essential that the
company's employees, the managers
of our person who is being assessed,
do not participate in the assessment,
and do not take into account the
results of the work that they have achieved.
It is the technology of the expert assessment
center, as well as the technology of the
development center, which are one of the
versions of this technology.
This is all the technology
we know.
Now we will look at these technologies
in more detail and try to understand
what their advantages are, what their
disadvantages are, what purpose they
can serve, how effective they
are and whether or not you should
use these technologies in
your work.
Let's start our technology
review with the most broad,
common, the most important, which
is recommended to use by
almost all companies which
is called, yes, absolutely true,
an audit of labor resources.
How can this be done?
We and you should take lists
of all employees of our company
in all units.
For each of these employees, more precisely
for each of these jobs, we must determine
the performance indicators and
give a certain assessment
then we can get and can not get the
feedback of managers repeat there
are situations when it can be done
and without reviews but it is better
of course to get them how to do
this we will consider again
a little more in detail later in
addition to this for us important
such thing as the older experience
of this employee naturally the
longer he works at our enterprise
darker prices for us his resource
and maybe the opposite, what is
called, does not have time for
the development of our enterprise.
He can do what he could and
should have done before.
He is not doing what
he should do today.
Well, as well as other significant
factors that can influence
our management decisions.
What decisions can be made on the
basis of the audit work resources?
For each character of
our organization, we decide
that it matches the position
and let it work on.
About the fact that it should be
carried out his move to another position
and may even be in another
unit, that is, rotation, we can include
this person in the reserve movement,
we can decide on the upgrading
of qualification, well,
and in addition, we can decide
on the need to replace
this employee, if he,
as they say, does
not pull.
If an employee matches the
position or if we are making a
decision about it, it may be worth
thinking about how to encourage them.
He may not be ready to take on
more important, more responsible
positions, to do more complex
and responsible work, but at the
same time he has been working
for us for a long time.
And if we do not add his
salary, do not come up with
another form of his encouragement,
he can get upset and find
a place with another employer.
If we decide to include people
in the reserve movement and
the need for improvement in skills,
we may have to conduct an in-
depth assessment after an
audit on this narrower
contingent.
That is, first to allocate
a broader contingent on the basis
of an audit, and then, using
more subtle but, of course,
expensive assessment methods,
to select a so-called small list
of these characters.
What happens at the end
of all this event?
summary report on our company,
which lies on the table of the Higher
Management and accordingly contains
our suggestions, recommendations,
an assessment of the situation on
the enterprise as a whole, well,
and on how we can continue with
you to lead the personnel policy,
what actions to take, or we
are all well, or we are well,
but can be even better.
This is the entire audit technology.
I repeat, this is the most broad
generalized method of assessing
staff, which in the maximum degree
engages the most diverse data
present in the organization
and which is primarily aimed at
introducing order, which is extremely
important when conducting an
audit, so that it is conducted
periodically, so that we at the
next See where we are moving,
what our dynamics are positive
or negative, we have
achieved what we wanted to
or vice versa failed with us,
and if it did not work,
then why.
The next HR assessment technology
I would like to consider
is MBO, Management by Objectives
or, yes, management by
objectives.
It is not just an assessment technology,
it is a management technology
that motivates the management
of subordinates directly
in the units, and solves
four tasks at once.
It motivates employees, and, most
importantly, increases their engagement
and loyalty, and allows for the
formation of a reserve of movement,
and, most importantly, as we already
increase the responsibility
of line managers for their employees.
How is this done?
It begins with the indication
of the objectives of the unit in
which our employee works.
These objectives are discussed collectively with
the entire personal composition.
There are ideas, statements, considerations.
On the basis of these considerations,
ideas, statements, each of our
employees writes their own individual
plans, containing the goals that
employees intend to implement,
so that the unit as
a whole realizes their
goals.
In other words, my contribution to the total treasury.
It should be noted that this is not just
work achievements.
The courts can also include such goals
as new areas of work, the development
of new technologies, study,
knowledge acquisition, experience
acquisition, can even
change in behavior.
After that, the direct leader
talks with each subordinate,
discuss these plans.
What is so important here?
It is not the appointment
of a plan to an employee, it is the
joint work of the employee's
executives that generates
a common vision of what should
be done next.
This can happen once every
six months, it can happen once
a quarter, it can happen once
a year, but the results
periodically provide
feedback.
That is, according to the schedule
plan, which was drafted in the process
of joint creativity, the manager
from time to time meets with
the subordinate and they discuss
what happened, what is not, what
goals are realized, which are not
quite realized, well, and maybe
there are some goals worth removing
if they have lost relevance
or set new goals.
What is very important is that in the
process of this work, not only the objectives
that are put before the
employee are discussed, but also what
results he can get himself, for example,
what he needs to get into
the reserve of movement.
Or he wants to do large projects,
which he has not yet participated
in, please, before him are set goals,
according to the results of
which they will jointly decide,
you can entrust him such projects,
such a more complex
work or not.
Thus, I repeat, management
by goals is a situation where the
assessments themselves are not very
visible.
It is rather in the current mode
the constant communication
between the leader and his subordinates,
which stimulates the subordinates,
shows the leader who is moving
in which direction.
But if there is a need, as a
rule, it is, then for
a certain period, most often managers
submit the relevant assessment
sheets to the staff management
service and summarize
the company as a whole.
Good technology, good, I like
it very much.
Can you be insured in your company?
A difficult question.
Unfortunately, one of the problems
we are facing now is the problem,
well, say, not high enough
competence of managers
of the middle and take the attempt
to implement management on the
goal as something artificial
who-somebody and fear this is quite
a common situation relates
to this purely formally and it turns
out that in the end all our initiatives
it does not generally bring
the expected results gently
expressed only if we do not have
data on the same United States
and Europe where the management
system on the goal is implemented,
but not very well
working.
Why is it?
The introduction of a new, serious,
affecting many people in the
company of the management system,
always meets resistance.
I started slowly bringing you to
this topic.
We will talk about it in more detail later.
The next issue that we would like to
consider is the use in personnel
assessment systems, quite a
new fashionable, well-known,
popular methodology, such as
the KPI system, Key Productivity
Indicators, that is, key
performance indicators.
Like the previous technologies
we considered, it's much
more than just one of the staff
assessment technologies.
Moreover, there is nothing evaluated
from what we discussed before,
except one – you have achieved
the indicators that you
were assigned or not.
If you have achieved it is good,
you are good, you can count on
encouragement, you can count on
promotion and so on.
If it fails, then bad with all
the consequences that follow from this.
Can and should you use
this system in your
company?
The fact is that very many of our
leaders consider the KPI system as
some very tough, somewhere even
inhumane such a pro-Western technology
that clears the concept of a
person, reduces everything
only to some indicators, and therefore
is not very willing to use it.
Others, less humanistically
attuned, hold the view that
we have the main clarity,
are those indicators evil to
reach them, and therefore KPI
is a very useful thing
to implement.
To understand if this is true,
literally a few words.
What is this system and how does
it work?
What is its meaning?
An organization, such as a
large corporation, sets its strategic
goals for a rather long
period of time.
What could be the company's strategic
goal?
Well, imagine, there was no Russian
in the markets, and she wants
to appear here and even
build a factory and start producing
our products here with
our Russian labor resources.
A noble purpose, a noble purpose.
Either go into a market where it hasn't
been present before, or master
products it hasn't produced before,
or introduce information
technology that hasn't been present
before.
and worthy?
Yes it decent.
But it is necessary to remember that
this is a task that requires a
million or a billion investments,
which requires the intensive work
of almost the entire enterprise,
which covers a huge number
of people and is planned for years.
On the basis of such
a strategic plan is formed the system
of KPI-corporation.
On the basis of the KPI-corporation,
the KPI is formed for its departments.
It is clear that in order to
implement the strategic goals of the
company, well, suppose, on the construction
of a new enterprise,
the Engineering Department must
prepare drawings, justifications.
The Department of Economics should
prepare a business plan.
The HR department should
prepare the personnel for this
task.
Provide the company with
the necessary human resources
needed for the realization
of these goals.
And it is clear that each
department will get
its own KPI.
They will all be different, but in general
they will, so to speak, hit the same point
– this is the KPI of corporations.
But there are smaller units in
each department, say, departments,
and each department will also
get its own KPI.
For example, in the ACR department
we have a department that is
engaged in recruitment.
So, the KPI of this division will include
the search, study, selection and hiring
of personnel that are necessary for the
implementation of this project.
Well, let's remember now that
there are individual employees
in each unit, and each
of them will also
be given his own boil.
Here is such a beautiful system
that seeks all the plans of our huge
enterprise from top to bottom.
is enchanting?
Yes very much.
Just let us remember that this is a
huge job that requires not only the
introduction of new information
systems, but also the revision
of how our company worked before,
and the revision of proper positions,
and the revision of people's
attitudes to their work.
Now let's remember one small
unpleasant feature.
Tell me, please, how would it be easier
for you to work?
When are you just working and doing something?
Or when you have absolutely clear,
understandable norms, goals and goals?
Someone will say the second, and
those who have been in the first
mode will say, “No, why do I need
it, I was good before.”
Again, every implementation of such
a system in an organization meets
with tremendous resistance
from the staff, as does any major
innovation.
We have started to implement the KPI system
in our organization.
How long do you think this implementation
will take?
I will say years.
What resources will it require?
the corresponding ones.
What result will we get?
Results are not guaranteed.
Maybe not to go out.
Therefore, let's say so, the implementation
of KPI is a very noble thing.
In terms of the managable system
these are attractive for
including labor costs and
other things, you need to think
very well.
I must say that to my deepest
regret, I know about a dozen and
a half companies where this system
is implemented, works or
does not work, of them
only two are reliably understandable,
it is known that it is yes,
it really works, yes, it really
brings its results, but
unfortunately, I must say
that this is not our organization.
I will not name them so that I will not make
any advertisements for anyone.
These are representatives of
all known major international
trademarks.
And this system was created,
of course, not here and not by these
resources, but within the framework
of the entire transnational
corporation that can afford
to spend such funds.
So, on the one hand, I would like
to have such a system, but it is
worth thinking whether it is not
enough to limit ourselves to
just a management system or another
system of evaluation of personnel
relevant to our task.
The next technology of personnel
assessment that we would like to
discuss is the technology of
so-called expert assessments.
As we said, this technology
is a bit of a mansion.
It is specialized in both the methods
used and the purposes and the
way it is implemented.
And above all, it differs in the fact
that the assessment is not conducted
by the employees of the organization
or the managers of our assessed employee,
but by completely outsiders
who don't know him at all.
Who are these people?
These are the experts.
What are they experts on?
It may not be so much in business,
it may not be so much in economics,
it may not be so much in solving
certain specific business tasks,
but in assessing the most diverse
competences of a person,
which is required to perform
a particular job in
a particular position,
usually high.
Note that unlike other assessment
methods, the technology of the expert
assessment center is often used
not only when evaluating the company's
current staff, but also when
evaluating potential employees,
especially for high positions.
And some people in the West,
in the United States in particular,
turn to the Expert Assessment
Center to get a characterization
of their competence, and then
send it to various employers
with an offer of such
a wonderful person to take
on his job.
Such practice also exists.
But again, it is clear that this
is very cheap.
If you pay attention, I have
allowed a word of reservation.
I said they do not go to the Expert
Assessment Center.
I said, he is addressing the expert
assessment center.
The fact is that when we hear the
expression “expert assessment
center”, we imagine that there
is a house, there is a room in
the house, and it is written “center”.
In fact, the center is not a place,
it is a procedure that can be carried
out anywhere, including, please,
if you are so comfortable, and
on the basis of your company.
What is an expert assessment
center?
This is a procedure that is implemented
by an expert group.
This is a set of tests, tasks, cases,
practical exercises, based on which
conclusions are made about what
competencies our evaluated
person has, which are developed,
and which are not developed
or less developed.
A so-called competence matrix
is created, which corresponds
to the competences of
the position in which
we consider our hero.
On the basis of the performance of
various tasks, where the main role is
played by the solution of practical
tasks, the resolution of
cases, the so-called profile
of competence of the assessment of
my face is made, and then on the
basis of this profile, in fact, a
conclusion is given on what he
is capable of, and what,, not very
capable of.
What are the experts who
make this assessment?
First of all, they must, on
the basis of observations of human
behavior, on the basis of assessments
of the tasks that he decides,
decide how much these competences
are developed.
But for this, agree, you
need to have certain experience,
preparation.
They are, to say the most clearly, special people.
There is another variant of the expert
assessment center, which is
called the “Development Center”,
the main task of which is not so
much to evaluate a person, but to
understand exactly what he lacks.
That is, it is a methodology, it is
a technology, or more precisely, forgive
me, which solves the task of assessing
the need for development.
Why do these technologies exist, why
do they need, and why can't we limit
ourselves to simpler and cheaper
technologies?
Well, first of all, it is believed that
any technology of assessment of personnel
on the basis of the organization
itself, especially with the
involvement of its direct manager,
always carries a certain element
of subjectivity.
Someone likes someone, someone doesn't
like someone.
Someone got into a fight with someone, someone
got up with someone, so to speak, on the way.
And, as is often the case, managers
underestimate their subordinates
simply because they are
afraid to create competitors.
And the simplest option.
If we have assessment experts,
who will guarantee that
our employees are such experts?
No one guarantees.
No one taught them to evaluate the staff.
This is our task with you.
What to decide, we will talk later.
So, is the expert assessment considered
free of these shortcomings?
Is it objective?
Well, I honestly always have a question,
and how do we guarantee that
the assessments that the center
has given are necessary to perform
the work we are recruiting for,
or the capabilities of
the person we are assessing
with you?
Well, in general, this is a very strong statement.
Before creating a competence
matrix, before understanding
what competences a person
should have, it is also necessary
to do a big and serious job.
There is another disadvantage and another
problem with this technology.
It works relatively well in those conditions
when business is well-established, management
is well-established, understandable.
And the task of a person is rather
to take a place in a mechanism, and the
requirements for this place are known and
prescribed.
It is so.
For those corporations that exist
and operate in the market for fifty years.
I am afraid that not every
company meets these requirements.
Well, as a technology, I repeat,
it's a pretty expensive thing.
Should we resort to her?
Let's see what goals we pursue
with you.
And can we not assess the suitability
of our specialist to work
on the basis of simpler factors?
If not, let's try.
In general, Center Expert Assessments
is an interesting, romantic
and developing activity.
It takes from one to
several days.
Again, the company image.
We select people for top management
positions through
expert assessments.
The only thing to pay attention
to here.
Before you use expert assessments,
please ask your
experts for a portfolio.
What organizations they have
already served, what has been done there,
and maybe not very well done.
Otherwise, be very careful about
how to choose our respected
experts.
The following assessment technologies
we will consider with you are a circular
assessment or a 360-degree assessment.
This is the technology of evaluation
of personnel, where, as we have already
said, the managers, the person being
evaluated, that is, the evaluation from
above, internal customers and
suppliers, that is, colleagues,
associates, partners of our
person being evaluated,
its subordinates, possibly, and
often, self-evaluation is made, well
and also, if necessary,
if possible, if it really makes
sense, external clients
are attracted.
They can be involved if our employee
works, well, say, in the back office
and people outside the organization
on the job is almost not encountered.
What's good about this assessment?
Of course, it is diverse.
This will reduce the potential
subjectivism.
What reduces the effectiveness of this assessment?
The fact is that, as I have
said, it takes a lot of
time and resources to
implement it, and this assessment
can meet quite serious
resistance from the parties
involved.
Imagine that you are approached
and asked to give an
assessment of the person
you are working side by side
with.
And if he doesn't have a very high
opinion, you might be afraid to just ruin
the relationship.
And how to attract to the evaluation
of the subordinates of our respected
employee, if they have them?
Imagine that he has not received
very high appreciation from his
subordinates.
And why?
And because he may not be a very
good manager, and maybe the
opposite, because he is just
a tough manager who makes unpopular
decisions, acts in the interests
of the company, so to
speak, and has a strong tail
to some of his subordinates.
No longer understandable.
And if our manager has gotten
very high ratings from his
subordinates or average ratings,
what can that mean?
Both that he is good or average,
and that people are afraid to spoil
a relationship and then get
theirs for such not very good
ratings.
There is a third important
point, which concerns
our domestic mentality.
The fact is that we do not have a very
democratic system of governance,
which is clear from where it came, it
is clear from where we have such
traditions.
And for many leaders, the very idea
that subordinates will be
involved in evaluating their
superiors is a stupid threat.
How is it?
The boss is always more correct,
more right and smarter.
You can say so, and you can say otherwise.
For example, I think that if managers
are afraid of their subordinates'
assessments, then they probably
aren't very competent
managers.
In other words, a 360-degree assessment
system works well where there is
a fairly democratic management
culture, where there is open
communication, where there are,
for example, situations where
managers are absolutely
not afraid of assessments from
their subordinates because
they know they will be adequate,
or, on the contrary, they perceive
such assessments as guidance
to action.
In such situations, of course, this
assessment works well.
Let's see what she can
give us.
In the following graph, we see
an example of the 360-degree assessment
that a employee was given by his
boss, his peers, that is, colleagues
and his self-esteem.
The assessments were given on parameters
of inclination to cooperation,
cooperativity, energeticity, initiative,
communication and creativity.
I will not say why you took
these and I will not
say how we assessed them.
This issue will be discussed in detail
in the next section, which deals
with personnel assessment methods.
Let's look at the graphs
we are watching here.
See also.
Self-esteem is above the
assessments given to
our hero, his manager,
his colleagues.
This already raises interesting questions.
Where are the biggest differences?
First of all, in the position
of cooperation, where self-esteem is
almost the highest possible, and from the
side of a colleague is so average,
and from the side of communications,
where again a person has put a fairly
high appreciation for himself,
and colleagues have a middle point.
What do you think can
explain this situation?
A careful analysis of this chart causes
the hypothesis that a person
suffers from somewhat overestimated
self-esteem.
That, most likely, he is not
as focused on cooperation as he
thinks, and does not perceive
him and understand his colleagues
as he thinks.
And, most likely, in this regard,
it has deficits.
But pay attention to the coincidence
of opinions about the creativity and
energy of our character from the
point of view of him and his cowboy.
The assessment is the same.
How do you see yourself this man?
In general, it is quite easy to imagine.
He is an energetic, purpose-
oriented, ideas-guying person
who may possess leadership
qualities, but in order to
fully realize himself as
a leader or leader, he still
has to work on himself
very well.
This is just an example.
It shows to what extent an interesting
and detailed assessment of a person
can be made by this 360-degree assessment
technology.
We only have to confirm our hypotheses
with the help of more subtle technologies,
but you see it hard done, it's
hard done and it's unlikely
it makes sense to conduct
such an assessment if we have
a lot of staff to assess.
I think that the company is
able to withstand the
use of this technology on labor
costs if the estimates
move 15-20 people, but not more.
But it is worth repeating once again
that, unfortunately, it is very
likely that if the company's organizational
culture, its traditions, manners
and leadership do not fully
meet the democratic requirements
that are necessary to implement
the 360-degree assessment
technology.
This is where we end the second
part of our lesson, devoted to assessment
technologies.
I will ask you to read again,
to carefully review the outputs of
this part of our class, and also
to answer the questions from
your workbook, part 2.
I hope they won't cause
you any trouble.
The foundation loves you!